Dempsey played for one of the top youth soccer clubs in the state before playing for Furman University's men's soccer team.
Dempsey grew up in Nacogdoches.
Nacogdoches was Texas.
The state was the Dallas Texans.
Dempsey was drafted by Major League Soccer club New England Revolution in 2004.
He would eventually score 25 goals in 71 appearances with the Revolution.
Dempsey played for Premier League team Fulham.
Dempsey is the club's highest Premier League goalscorer of all time.
Dempsey became the first American player to score a hat-trick in the English Premier League.
Dempsey first represented the United States at the 2003 FIFA World Youth Championship.
Dempsey first made his first appearance with the senior team on November 17 against Jamaica.
He has earned over 100 caps.
He makes him the nation's sixth-most capped player and second top scorer of all time.
He has represented the nation at four CONCACAF Gold Cups -LRB- winning two -RRB- , helped them to the final of the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup and played at three FIFA World Cups , becoming the first American male to score in three World Cups .
Early life and career Dempsey was born in Nacogdoches , Texas , and , for much of his childhood , his family lived in a trailer park , where he and his siblings grew up playing soccer with Hispanic immigrants .
Dempsey maintained these ties playing in a local Mexican-dominated adult league in his teens.
Dempsey is of Irish descent on his father's side.
His older brother Ryan was offered a tryout for the Dallas Texans.
Clint was noticed.
Clint was recruited.
The Dallas Texans was an elite youth soccer club.
Dempsey became a standout on the team at an early age.
Dempsey had to quit due to his family's time and money constraints as his eldest sister Jennifer was becoming a ranked youth tennis player.
Several parents of his teammates with the Texans offered to assist the Dempseys with expenses and travel.
Dempsey lost his then 16-year-old sister Jennifer to a brain aneurysm on November 27,1995.
Dempsey was devastated with the family's loss.
Dempsey later explained that this event helped him develop a deeper motivation to pursue soccer in honor of his sister.
He went on to be the captain and high scorer of the Texans.
He was honored with the MVP of the Tampa Bay Sun Bowl tournament.
Dempsey studied the play of Argentina 's national team , especially Diego Maradona , and was heartbroken when the news came to Nacogdoches that Maradona would not be playing in the 1994 World Cup game played in the Cotton Bowl .
He attended Furman University as a health and exercise science major and a key player for Paladins soccer.
Club career New England Revolution New England Revolution selected Clint Dempsey eighth overall in the 2004 MLS SuperDraft.
He started 23 of 24 matches scoring seven goals in his rookie season.
Dempsey helped the Revolution to the Eastern Conference Finals.
Dempsey earned 2004 MLS Rookie of the Year Honors.
Dempsey contributed ten goals and nine assists in 26 games in 2005.
He scored the game-winning goal in the Eastern Conference Final on his way to an appearance in the MLS Cup Final.
Dempsey added 8 more goals.
Dempsey missed significant time in the playoffs due to injury.
He came on as a substitute in the MLS Cup Final , but the Revolution lost their second straight final , this time in a penalty shoot-out -LRB- largely because Dempsey opted out of the PK , and it ended up scuffed off Jay Heaps ' foot instead -RRB- .
Dempsey went for a trial at AKS AomAa where the coach sent him to Fulham Fulham 2006a ``07 season''.
In December 2006 , English club Fulham offered MLS $ 4 million for the transfer of Dempsey , then the largest amount ever offered for an MLS player , and he became another American addition to a Cottagers ' squad which included US internationals Brian McBride and Carlos Bocanegra .
He was granted a work permit from the Home Office as Fulham announced his signing on a long-term deal on January 11,2007.
Fulham announced his signing on a long-term deal.
This made Dempsey the most expensive American export to the Premier League in a deal worth a reported A2 million.
He made his Fulham debut in a 1a 1 home draw against Tottenham Hotspur on January 20,2007.
His FA Cup debut followed seven days later in a 3a 0 home win over Stoke City.
Dempsey scored his first goal for Fulham on 5 May when he struck the only goal of a 1a 0 home win over Liverpool.
This goal saved Fulham from relegation.
2007a `` 08 season Dempsey was not in the starting XI for the first three matches of the 2007a `` 08 season , but after an injury to Brian McBride , he came into the side as a striker and scored in a 2a `` 1 defeat at Aston Villa .
He followed this up by scoring in Fulham's next fixture in a 3a 3 home draw against Tottenham on September 1.
He opened the scoring in Fulham's 1a ``1 away draw against Wigan Athletic''.
These goals gave Dempsey three in as many games.
Dempsey was involved in an aerial collision with John Terry during a 0a ``0 draw'' at Stamford Bridge which resulted in Terry being substituted on September 29.
There was some suggestion that Dempsey used a deliberate elbow on Terry.
He was not punished for the incident as referee Martin Atkinson did not report it to The Football Association.
Referee Martin Atkinson did not report it to The Football Association.
Dempsey scored during Fulham's 3a ``1 home'' win over Reading to secure just a second league win of the season on November 3.
He scored his last goals of the season in a 1a 1 home draw with Wigan Athletic and 5a 1 away loss to Tottenham in December.
Fulham announced Dempsey had signed a contract extension which would keep him at the club until the summer of 2010 in May 2008.
Fulham beat Portsmouth 1a 0 on the final day of the season to secure Premier League status for another year.
He ended the season as Fulham's top Premier League goalscorer with six goals.
2008a `` 09 season Dempsey made the Fulham XI only once in the first eleven fixtures of the 2008a `` 09 season but scored his first goal in a 1a `` 1 away draw at Portsmouth on October 26 after coming on as a substitute .
He replaced Zoltan Gera in the side.
He scored his first home goal of the season in a 3a ``0''.
He win over Middlesbrough on December 20.
He scored twice in the West London derby against Chelsea which included a last-minute equalizer in a 2a ``2 home draw''.
Dempsey scored the first FA Cup goal of his career in a 2a ``1 home'' win over Swansea City in the fifth-round on February 24,2009.
His final home goal of the season came in a 2a 1 defeat to Blackburn Rovers on March 11.
Fulham came from a goal down to beat Manchester City 3a 1 away from home as Dempsey scored two goals on April 12.
Dempsey scored two goals on April 12.
Dempsey ended as Fulham's top Premier League goalscorer joint with Andrew Johnson with seven goals for the second successive season.
These goals helped Fulham secure a seventh-place finish in the Premier League.
These goals confirmed their qualification for the newly formed UEFA Europa League for the following season.
The seventh-place finish in the Premier League was the highest in the club's history.
Dempsey signed a contract extension to remain with Fulham through 2013 On August 13,2009.
He scored his first goal in European competition.
He neted Fulham's second goal in a 3a ``1 win against Amkar Perm in the play-off round''.
La Gazzetta dello Sport named Dempsey as one of the top eleven Premier League players of the season on December 30.
Dempsey suffered a suspected cruciate knee ligament injury in a 2a ``0 away defeat'' to Blackburn Rovers on January 17,2010.
Dempsey returned.
Dempsey came on in the last minute of Fulham's loss away to Juventus.
Dempsey came off the bench against Juventus in their second-leg, last-16 tie in the Europa League.
Dempsey scored the winner on a long chip shot.
Fulham won the game 4a ``1''.
This game resulted in Fulham winning an award, as well as Dempsey receiving an award for his goal.
The Guardian suggested that the goal ``might become the most famous goal in Fulham's history''.
Dempsey replaced Bobby Zamora in the 55th minute of the 2010 UEFA Europa League Final.
Dempsey made history in becoming the first ever American to appear in a major European final.
Fulham lost the match.
AtlAtico Madrid's Diego ForlAn scored in the 116th minute of extra time.
AtlAtico Madrid's Diego ForlAn gave AtlAtico a 2a ``1 win''.
His performances throughout 2009a ``10'' earned him the designation of Most Valuable Player among Americans in Europe by SoccerOverThere. com.
2010a `` 11 season Dempsey was on the substitutes ' bench for Fulham 's first two away games of 2010a `` 11 , but became a regular starter , one of only five USA players in the Premier League to do so .
On September 18 , 2010 , he scored an equalizing goal on 56 minutes with a header against Blackburn Rovers at Ewood Park in the 1a `` 1 draw to continue Fulham 's unbeaten record in the Barclays Premier League .
He scored against West Ham United past Robert Green that he had scored against in the World Cup on October 2.
West Ham United past Robert Green was the same keeper.
He then continued his form by scoring two goals against Wigan Athletic on October 30 as Fulham ran out 2a 0 winners.
Fulham ran out 2a ``0 winners''.
Dempsey scored another double versus Stoke City.
Dempsey put Fulham temporarily out of relegation contention.
On March 19 , Dempsey became the first USA player to score 10 goals in a Premier League season , beating Brian McBride 's previous record of nine , also set while at Fulham in the 2005a `` 06 season and 2006a `` 07 season .
Clint Dempsey broke Fulham's Premier League goalscoring record by netting twice in a 3a 0 victory over Bolton on April 27,2011.
He has scored a total of 33 goals for the team in the Premier League.
Steed Malbranque is each.
He tops both Brian McBride and Steed Malbranque with 32.
He scored 12 goals for Fulham in the 2010a ``11 season'' with these goals.
Dempsey was voted Fulham player of the season for 2010a ``11'' by the Fulham fans.
His 12 Premier League strikes meant he was the club's leading goalscorer for the campaign.
Dempsey scored a brace in the first leg of Fulham's 2011a ``12 Europa League play-off clash against Dnipro Dnipropetrovsk'' at Craven Cottage.
Dempsey ended with two goals as Fulham ran out 3a ``0 winners''.
Fulham ran out 3a ``0 winners''.
Fulham set up a comfortable second leg in Ukraine.
Dempsey scored in the 85th minute to secure a 1a ``0 win'' against Liverpool at Craven Cottage on December 5,2011.
The goal propelled Dempsey to become the most prolific USA goalscorer in the Premier League, passing Fulham legend and fellow American Brian McBride.
Dempsey scored his fifth Premier League goal of the campaign with a header in a 2a ``0 home win against Bolton on December 17''.
Dempsey lifted his side six points clear of the drop zone.
Dempsey scored the equalizing goal as the game ended in a 1a 1 draw in the club's West London derby against rivals Chelsea on Boxing Day.
He then became the second American to post a hat trick in the FA Cup behind Chris Cleary with his first hat-trick of his career on January 7 against Charlton Athletic in their FA Cup Third Round game that ended in a 4a `` 0 victory .
On January 21 , 2012 , Dempsey scored his first Premier League hat-trick against Newcastle while the game ended in a 5a `` 2 win for Fulham and sent his goal tally in the Premier League to nine for the season .
He became the first ever USA player to score a hat-trick in the Premier League with his hat-trick against Newcastle.
Dempsey scored his 10th Premier League goal of the season in a 1a 1 draw against former manager Roy Hodgson's West Brom on February 1,2012.
The season was sixteenth in all competitions.
This run of good form saw Dempsey play higher-up the field into an orthodox striker position.
He ``assisted'' another goal in a 2a 1 win against Stoke City on February 11,2012.
His 28th-minute shot hit the crossbar.
His 28th-minute shot was deflected by Stoke goalkeeper Thomas SArensen.
It was therefore awarded as an own goal off the goalie.
His form this season continued against Wolverhampton Wanderers where Dempsey scored twice in a 5a 0 victory for Fulham.
Fulham manager Martin Jol revealed that the club had opened talks with the North American over a new three-year contract on March 8 before Dempsey's 29th birthday.
Dempsey scored his fourteenth and fifteenth Premier League goals of the campaign , bringing his tally to twenty-one in all competitions , in a 3a `` 0 away win over Bolton Wanderers on April 7 , the first a free kick and the second a header .
The strikes moved Dempsey past Louis Saha's record of thirteen Premier League goals for the club in a single season.
Dempsey finished fourth on the FWA Footballer of the Year list behind the winner, Arsenal's Robin van Persie, and Manchester United pair Wayne Rooney and Paul Scholes.
The FWA Footballer of the Year list behind the winner, Arsenal's Robin van Persie, and Manchester United pair Wayne Rooney and Paul Scholes came in second and third.
Dempsey became the first USA player to reach the milestone of fifty goals in the Premier League in the last home game of the season.
Dempsey was voted the Fulham ` Player of the Season ' by fans for the second consecutive season on June 7,2012.
Fulham confirmed Dempsey's transfer to Tottenham Hotspur on August 31,2012.
Tottenham Hotspur joined Tottenham Hotspur on a three-year contract for a fee believed to be in the region of $9 million On August 31.
The deal made Dempsey the highest salaried US soccer player of all time.
With the 23 shirt that he wore at Fulham and the number 8 that he usually wears on international duty unavailable , he opted for the number 2 jersey , more usually associated with the right-back , which he wore at Furman University .
Dempsey scored his first and the eventual match-winning goal for Tottenham in a 3a 2 win over Manchester United.
It was the first time in 23 years that Tottenham had won at Old Trafford.
He scored his second goal for Spurs in the 39th minute in an away game at Southampton in October.
Dempsey's third and fourth goals were scored against Everton in an eventual 2a 1 loss and a deflected effort against Reading on New Year's Day to help his Spurs side win 3a 1.
He scored a double against Coventry City in the FA Cup 3rd round.
On January 20 , 2013 , in driving snow at White Hart Lane against league leaders Manchester United , Dempsey was able to salvage a dramatic 1a `` 1 draw for Spurs by slotting home a pass from Aaron Lennon in the 93rd minute .
The goal was his fourth in four appearances in 2013.
On January 27 , 2013 , Dempsey scored a looping header against Leeds United at Elland Road , in the FA Cup to bring the score to 2a `` 1 , however Tottenham Hotspur could not draw level throughout the rest of the game , leaving the result at 2a `` 1 to Leeds at the whistle .
Dempsey was unable to make an impression against his old club on March 17.
Dempsey scored the first of three goals for Tottenham in a 3a ``1'' win over Manchester City at White Hart Lane on April 21.
Dempsey scored a long range goal.
Dempsey added an.
Dempsey assist while playing against Stoke City to help Spurs win 2a ``1'' and keep them in contention for the fourth Champions League spot.
Dempsey scored two goals against FC Basel in the second leg of the Europa League quarter-finals to send the match into extra time on April 11,2013.
Tottenham eventually lost the match on penalties.
Tottenham eventually thus were eliminated from Europe.
Seattle Sounders FC On August 3,2013, Dempsey signed with MLS club Seattle Sounders FC as a Designated Player on a four-year contract.
He once again donned the number 2 shirt he wore at Fulham.
The number 2 shirt forgoded the number 8 he usually wears for the United States and the number 23.
The previous user of the number 2 shirt moved to number 17.
The previous user of the number 2 shirt was DeAndre Yedlin.
Dempsey made his league debut for Seattle on August 10,2013 in a 2a 1 victory over Toronto FC.
Dempsey entered the match as a 34th-minute substitute after Obafemi Martins came off with an ankle injury.
Obafemi Martins came off with an ankle injury.
Dempsey re-signed with Fulham on a two-month loan to Fulham On December 24,2013.
He made his return debut on January 4,2014 in the Third Round of the FA Cup against Norwich City.
Dempsey played the entire game which resulted in a 1a `` 1 draw , and subsequently took part in the replay at Craven Cottage , a 3a `` 0 victory for Fulham Return to Seattle Sounders FC Although no announcement was made by Fulham FC , Dempsey appeared in the Seattle squad to face Sporting Kansas City in the season opener on March 10 , 2014 .
Dempsey had made a return to form.
On June 16 , 2015 in the fourth round of the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup against rivals the Portland Timbers , Dempsey was sent off for ripping up referee Daniel Radford 's notebook in protest at the dismissal of Michael Azira .
The Sounders finished the match with seven men through three dismissals and an injury, and lost 1a 3 at home.
He was given a three-match MLS suspension and a fine.
Dempsey has frequently lined up as a striker due to his scoring threat and aerial ability International career For the national team.
His preferred and more normal role is off the striker.
Career: 2005 and 2007 Gold Cups and 2006 World Cup Dempsey first played for the United States national team at the 2003 FIFA World Youth Championship in the United Arab Emirates.
He made his first appearance with the senior team on November 17 , 2004 , against Jamaica in qualification for the 2006 World Cup , replacing Ramiro Corrales for the final 23 minutes of a 1a `` 1 draw at the Columbus Crew Stadium .
On May 28 , 2005 , he scored his first international goal on his sixth cap , a consolation in a 2a `` 1 defeat to England at Soldier Field , Chicago , by heading in after a save by goalkeeper David James .
Dempsey 's first international tournament was the United States ' victorious 2005 CONCACAF Gold Cup campaign ; he netted their first goal , equalising as they came from behind to defeat Cuba 4a `` 1 at Qwest Field in Seattle .
Dempsey was named to the US roster for the 2006 World Cup in Germany on May 2,2006.
He was the only American player to score a goal in the tournament with his equalizing goal in the Americans ' eventual 2a ``1 loss'' to Ghana.
The tournament was a group stage elimination.
He won the highest individual honor in football in America when he was named Honda Player of the Year for 2006.
He beat Fulham teammates Kasey Keller and Brian McBride in a poll of sportswriters.
Dempsey received 237 points in voting by 207 sports journalists to claim the award.
Dempsey was also present as the United States defended their title at the 2007 Gold Cup , again scoring their opening goal , the sole goal in a victory against Guatemala at The Home Depot Center ; his side-footed shot from Taylor Twellman 's assist gave the nation victory in Bob Bradley 's first match as coach .
2009 Confederations Cup and 2010 World Cup In the United States ' opening 2010 World Cup qualifier , Dempsey recorded the then fastest goal in US qualifying history with a chest trap and sliding shot 53 seconds into an 8a `` 0 defeat of Barbados .
Dempsey experienced a dip in form leading some to doubt his first-choice status with the national team.
Dempsey turned his fortunes around in the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup.
Dempsey scored a trademark diving header off a Jonathan Spector cross.
Dempsey made the final result 3a ``0''.
This put the United States through to the semi-finals.
The was combined with Brazil's 3a ``0 victory against Italy'' in the other group match that was being played simultaneously.
Dempsey scored to put the USA up 2a ``0'' to send them to the finals in the semi-final match against Spain.
He was named the Man of the Match for his performance.
Dempsey scored in his third straight game in the Confederations Cup Final against Brazil.
Dempsey redirected a similar cross from Spector in the 10th minute to open the scoring.
He was awarded the Bronze Ball as the tournament's 3rd best performer.
He followed the loss.
He ended the World Cup qualifying campaign tied with Landon Donovan as the team's second top scorer in thirteen matches.
The team's second top scorer in thirteen matches.
The team's second top scorer was with five goals.
The team's second top scorer was behind Jozy Altidore.
On June 12 , 2010 , Dempsey became the second American -LRB- after Brian McBride -RRB- to score in more than one World Cup when he scored the equalizer goal against England in the Americans ' first game of the 2010 World Cup after the England goalkeeper Robert Green made a major error .
Dempsey's disallowed goal later in the tournament against Algeria in the group stage was very controversial.
Dempsey was called offside.
The replay showed that he was most likely not offside.
Landon Donovan scored a late stoppage time goal to win the game 1a ``0'' despite this call.
The call was his teammate.
Dempsey played a key role in helping the United States advance to the final During the 2011 Gold Cup.
He recorded a goal in a 2a ``0'' win over Canada in the group stages.
Dempsey scored a goal in a 2a ``0'' win over Jamaica in the quarter-finals.
Dempsey scored the only goal to advance the Americans to the final in the semi-finals against Panama 1a ``2 in the group stage''.
Panama had shockingly defeated the United States.
Landon Donovan's pass into the net with a sliding touch Dempsey redirected.
Dempsey scored the lone goal in an international friendly win against four-time World champion Italy on February 29,2012.
Jozy Altidore assisted on the goal.
Jozy Altidore allowed the United States to win for the first time against Italy in eleven games played since 1934.
2014 World Cup and 2015 Gold Cup Dempsey broke his own fastest-goal record in World Cup qualifying on September 7.
2014 World Cup and 2015 Gold Cup Dempsey scored just 39 seconds into a 2a ``1 defeat'' against Jamaica in Kingston.
Dempsey scored his 29th and 30th international goal.
Dempsey tied him with Brian McBride for third most goals scored for the United States national team.
The goals helped the United States advance into the final qualifying stage for the 2014 World Cup.
Qualifying matches versus Costa Rica and Mexico in March 2013, Dempsey was given the captain's armband by JArgen Klinsmann for the important World Cup.
Dempsey scored two goals against Germany in a 4a ``3 win'' on June 2,2013.
The goals were his 34th and 35th overall for the national team.
The goals surpassed Eric Wynalda as second all-time top-goalscorer for the United States.
Dempsey became the 14th American to reach 100 caps on September 6 netting a penalty in a 3a 1 away defeat to Costa Rica in a qualifier.
Dempsey was named as captain of the 23 man United States squad ahead of the FIFA World Cup in 2014.
He scored against Ghana 29 seconds into the group play match on June 16.
It was the fastest goal in American World Cup history, and fifth fastest goal in all-time World Cup history.
Dempsey became the first American player to score in three consecutive World Cups with this goal.
Dempsey went on to suffer a broken nose midway through the first half as the United States defeated Ghana 2a 1.
The United States defeated Ghana 2a ``1''.
Dempsey notched his fourth World Cup goal in a 2a ``2 draw'' in the following match against Portugal.
This goal drew Dempsey level with Bert Patenaude as the second-highest goalscoring American in the World Cup.
The World Cup was one behind Landon Donovan.
Jurgen Klinsmann gave Michael Bradley the captain's armband.
Dempsey scored both U. S. goals in a 2a ``1 group stage win over Honduras at the Toyota Stadium in his native Texas'' during the Gold Cup.
Three days later , at his former club ground in New England , he struck the only goal to defeat Haiti , sending his team into the quarter-finals , where he scored his first international hat-trick in a 6a `` 0 victory against Cuba .
In the third-place play-off , he scored his seventh goal of the tournament to equalize for a 1a `` 1 draw against Panama , and also netted his attempt in the penalty shootout which his team eventually lost ; he finished the tournament as its top scorer .
Career statistics Club As of January 17,2016.
International As of July 25,2015.
Honours Club New England Revolution MLS Cup : Runner-up 2005 , 2006 Fulham UEFA Europa League : Runner-up 2009-10 Seattle Sounders Supporters ' Shield : 2014 U.S. Open Cup : 2014 International FIFA Confederations Cup : Runner-up 2009 CONCACAF Gold Cup : 2005 , 2007 Individual Fulham Player of the Season : 2010a `` 11 , 2011a `` 12 Confederations Cup Bronze Ball : 2009 Confederations Cup Team of the Tournament : 2009 CONCACAF Gold Cup Top Goalscorer : 2015 U.S. Soccer Athlete of the Year : 2007 , 2011 , 2012 Honda Player of the Year : 2006 , 2011 , 2012 MLS Rookie of the Year : 2004 Top Scorer Fulham : 2010a `` 11 , 2011a `` 12 Personal life Dempsey is married to Bethany Keegan Dempsey .
They have four children named Jackson and a daughter named Sophia.
Four children are a son named Clayton.
Clayton is a daughter named Elyse.
Elyse is a son.
He is a fisherman in his spare time.
Dempsey is a Roman Catholic.
He has spoken about his faith saying, ``I play to the best of my abilities''.
He has spoken about his faith saying, ``I am thankful for the many opportunities and amazing success has given me''.
I want to do right, not make mistakes through it all.
I want to do right, not live a life that is pleasing to Him through it all.
Dempsey is a fan of the NFL's Houston Texans.
Music One of Dempsey's passions outside of soccer is hip hop music.
Using the alias `` Deuce , '' he , along with fellow Texas rappers XO and the late Houston rapper Big Hawk from the Screwed Up Click , is featured rapping the song `` Do not Tread '' in a Nike soccer advertising campaign for the 2006 World Cup with the intention to showcase both the sport 's working-class roots and the United States team ahead of the World Cup .
The song's video is dedicated to his sister Jennifer.
His sister Jennifer was suddenly struck with a fatal brain aneurysm at age 16.
The video ends with a shot of him placing a flower at her grave at Dempsey's request.
Endorsements Dempsey features on the cover of EA Sports ' multi-platform video game FIFA 15 in the US & Canada.
Endorsements Dempsey is Lionel Messi.
References External links MLS player profile Clint Dempsey career statistics at Soccerbase Premier League profile.
