who is an Australian speech and language therapist played by Geoffrey Rush .
who is Lionel Logue .
what were incorporated into the script .
what was filmed at the Queen Street Mill in Burnley .
where was The weaving mill scene filmed .
what was a major box office and critical success .
what was The King 's Speech .
who did initially give it adult ratings due to profanity were muted in the US .
what Censors initially gave it .
when did It earn on a budget of 8 million .
when did It earn over 250 million internationally .
what was art direction .
what was Its visual style .
who discussed the film 's representation of historical detail to abdication .
what did Other commentators discuss to abdication .
where did Other commentators discuss the film 's representation of historical detail .
what was especially the reversal of Winston Churchill 's opposition .
what was Historical detail especially .
what received many awards and nominations .
what did The film receive .
what won seven British Academy Film Awards .
what did The King 's Speech win .
what did also win four Academy Awards : Best Picture .
what did The film also win : Best Picture .
who did The film also win four Academy Awards : .
what was Director , Best Actor , and Best Original Screenplay .
what was Picture .
who is second son of King George V.
who is Prince Albert
who is Duke of York .
what is Prince Albert .
who has given up hope of a cure .
what has The Duke given up .
who persuades him to see Lionel Logue .
who does His wife Elizabeth persuade him to see .
who is an Australian speech therapist living in London .
who is Lionel Logue .
who is a name used only by his family .
what is The Prince `` Bertie '' .
who offers him the recording as a keepsake .
what  Logue
what is a failure .
what do His attempt to so is .
who hears himself reciting unhesitatingly .
who teaches his patient muscle relaxation and breath control .
what does Logue teach .
who continues to probe gently and persistently at the psychological roots of the stutter .
where does Logue continue to probe gently and persistently .
who does eventually reveal some of the pressures of his childhood .
when does Albert eventually reveal .
who start to become friends .
who do The two men start to become .
who are alive .
who is as head of the Church of England .
what does The latter label as treason .
who insists that Albert could be a good king instead .
who does Logue insist that Albert could be instead .
who does reluctantly succeed as King George VI .
who decides to abdicate in order to marry Simpson .
who was unaware that the new King had been her husband 's patient .
who was Startling Mrs. Logue unaware that the new King had been .
who sits in King Edward 's Chair .
where does Logue sit .
who dismisses the underlying Stone of Scone as a trifle .
what does Logue dismiss as a trifle .
who remains unconvinced of his own fitness for the throne .
what is the King surprises .
what is Logue 's seeming disrespect .
who are then left in the broadcasting room .
where are George and Logue then left .
what does He deliver with Logue conducting him .
what do He found on Logue .
where do He found a dearth of information .
who agreed to discuss his father .
who did Dr. Valentine Logue agree to discuss .
when did She ask him not to do so .
who died in 2002 .
when did The Queen Mother die .
what did He show to his wife .
where did He show the finished screenplay .
who pronounced it too `` seduced by cinematic technique '' .
who received the script in 2005 .
what did Joan Lane of Wilde Thyme receive in 2005 .
when did Joan Lane of Wilde Thyme receive the script .
who was a production company in London .
what was Joan Lane of Wilde Thyme .
what started talking with Simon Egan and Gareth Unwin of Bedlam Productions .
who did They invite to London to rewrite the play again .
where did They invite Seidler to rewrite the play again .
what did They invite Seidler to London to rewrite again .
what was a small house in north London .
what was Pleasance Theatre .
what  They then
who was Tom Hooper preferred Hugh Grant .
who was King George VI .
who were convinced of his suitability for the role .
what awarded the production 1 million in June 2009 .
when did The UK Film Council award the production in June 2009 .
when did The UK Film Council award the production 1 million .
what be would performing in a play in January .
when be Rush would performing .
what had to be filmed during the weekend .
what was a relatively limited 8 million .
what had to be authentic -- combining regal opulence with scruffy .
what took over the Pullens buildings in Southwark on 25 .
what did The crew take over in Southwark on 25 .
where did The crew take over the Pullens buildings on 25 .
when did The crew take over the Pullens buildings in Southwark .
what was transformed into 1930s London .
what were placed on the walls .
where were Large advertisements placed .
who were sprayed with grit and buildings with grime .
what were for Bovril and fascism .
what was a good opportunity to show Logue 's socio-economic background .
what was The scene .
who began at Ely Cathedral on 26 .
where do A week 's filming with Firth , Rush , and Jacobi began on 26 .
when do A week 's filming with Firth , Rush , and Jacobi began at Ely Cathedral .
who was the location used for Westminster Abbey .
what was Ely Cathedral .
what had asked for permission to film in the Abbey .
where had The production asked for permission .
what were denied due to the demands of tourism .
who is architecturally a closer match to the Abbey .
what is Lincoln Cathedral architecturally to the Abbey .
where is Lincoln Cathedral architecturally a closer match .
who was a favored filming location .
what was Ely .
who swore an oath at St. James 's Palace .
what did George VI swear at St. James 's Palace .
where did George VI swear an oath .
what investigated Logue 's former consultation rooms .
what did The crew investigate .
what do They found not far away in 33 Portland Place .
where do They found a high , vaulted room not far away .
who was the production designer .
who was Eve Stewart .
what had access to the stadium only at 10 pm .
what had The crew only at 10 pm .
who were interspersed to give the impression of a crowd .
what was completed on 31 August 2010 .
when was The final cut of the film completed August 2010 .
when was The final cut of the film completed on 31 .
who was the voice coach for the film .
what was Neil Swain .
who watched archive footage of the King speaking in addition .
who did Firth watch in addition .
where did Firth watch archive footage of the King speaking .
what do If nothing else it 's .
what was composed by Alexandre Desplat .
what has to deal with that .
what has to deal with silence .
what has to deal with time .
what emphasises the protagonist 's struggle for control .
what  The minimalist approach
what swaddle the deepening friendship between the two leads .
what Growing banks of warm strings swaddle .
what rises to a climax in the coronation scene .
where does The music rise .
who did originally want to film the scene without music .
what did Hooper originally want to film without music .
who did later join the team to write the music .
what did Desplat later join .
what was nominated for several awards winning the latter award .
what did also win a Grammy at the 54th Grammy Awards .
who did The score also win at the 54th Grammy Awards .
where did The score also win a Grammy .
who Track listingEdit .
what does It put .
who widened his scope first to capture Rush 's gestures .
what did Hooper widen first to capture Rush 's gestures .
what did Hooper widen his scope first to capture .
what were full body movements and silhouettes .
what were Rush 's gestures .
what carried over to Firth as well .
where did The approach carry over as well .
who praised the `` low-wattage '' cinematography of Danny Cohen .
who did Martin Filler praise .
what do traditionally tend to use `` soft light '' .
what Historical dramas traditionally tend to use `` '' .
who wanted to use a harsher glare .
what did Hooper want to use .
what gives a more contemporary feel , and thus a greater emotional resonance .
what does The harsher glare give .
what erected huge blackout tents over the Georgian buildings .
what did The lighting team erect over the Georgian buildings .
where did The lighting team erect huge blackout tents .
what used large lights filtered through Egyptian cotton .
what do The lighting team used .
who was an adviser on the film .
what was Hugo Vickers .
who attributes this treatment to the `` cult '' surrounding Churchill 's legacy .
what does Hitchens attribute to the `` cult '' surrounding Churchill 's legacy .
where does Hitchens attribute this treatment .
what  They also
what was King George VI .
who was Chamberlain 's foreign policy .
what were such as in the probably imagined scene .
what makes the larger point that both the King and his wife were .
what makes Filler that both the King and his wife were .
where did They only warm later in the war .
where was It screened .
who criticised the first design as a `` train smash '' .
what  Hooper
who called the original , air-brushed effort .
what did Tim Appelo call .
what showed the three leads .
what distributed it in North America .
where did The Weinstein Company distribute it .
what was Germany , Benelux , Scandinavia , China , Hong Kong , and Latin America .
what was North America .
what was released in France on 2 February 2011 .
when was The film released February 2011 .
when was The film released in France on 2 .
what lowered the rating to `` 12A '' .
what did The board lower to `` 12A '' .
where did The board lower the rating .
who levelled the same criticism at the Motion Picture Association of America .
what did Hooper level at the Motion Picture Association of America .
where did Hooper level the same criticism .
what gave the film an `` R '' rating .
what did The Motion Picture Association of America give the film .
who criticised the `` R '' rating .
what  Roger Ebert
who wrote `` This is an excellent film for teenagers '' .
who did Roger Ebert write `` This is '' .
who called it `` utterly inexplicable '' .
who was the executive producer and distributor .
who was Harvey Weinstein .
who refused to cut the film .
what did Hooper refuse to cut .
what did He consider covering with bleeps .
who did also defend the film .
what did Helena Bonham Carter also defend .
who noted that he does not support re-editing the film .
what did Colin Firth note that he does not support .
what does He not condone .
what was classified as `` PG-13 '' in the United States .
where was An alternate version classified as `` PG-13 '' .
what was released to cinemas on 1 April 2011 .
when was This version released April 2011 .
when was This version released to cinemas on 1 .
what was with some of the profanities muted out .
what replaced the R-rated one .
what is not available on DVD and Blu-ray .
when did It take from 395 cinemas .
who earned 1 . 5 million less .
what continued a `` stunning three weeks '' atop the UK Box office .
when did The King 's Speech continue atop the UK Box office .
when were the first film .
what were Four consecutive weekends .
what opened with $ 355,450 in four cinemas in the United States .
where did The King 's Speech open with $ 355,450 .
what does It hold .
where made It eventually $ 138 million .
what made more than A$ 6,281,686 in the first two weeks .
when made The King 's Speech more than A$ 6,281,686 .
who said customer feedback on the film was spectacular .
what did The executive director of Palace Cinemas say was spectacular .
what do It 's 1 for all the period throughout the country .
what has received widespread critical acclaim .
what has The King 's Speech received .
what was calculated as 8 . 6 \ / 10 .
what was a predictable but stylishly produced and rousing period drama .
what was The King 's Speech .
who gave the film a weighted score of 88/100 .
what did Metacritic give the film .
what was based on 41 critiques .
where was The weighted score based .
who does It rank as `` universal acclaim '' .
who reported that audiences gave the film a rare `` A + '' grade .
what did CinemaScore report that audiences gave the film .
what gave the film five stars out of five .
what did It win for a king and the rest of us .
what awarded the film a full four stars .
what did Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times award the film .
who gave four stars out of five .
what did Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian give out of five .
who called the lead performances one of its principal attractions .
what did Manohla Dargis call .
what do `` harry flinty enough to shed a nation for a wife . ''
who praised the actor in the DVD commentary .
who did Hooper praise in the DVD commentary .
where did Hooper praise the actor .
who said he `` nailed '' the 1930s royal accent .
what did Hooper say he `` nailed '' .
who welcomed the film .
what did The Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists welcome .
who gave the film an average of four out of five stars .
what did Allocine give the film .
what was based on a survey of 21 reviews .
where was The average based .
who was a French cinema website .
what was Allocine .
who summarised it as We are ugly and boring By Jove !
who characterised the film as the `` latest manifestation of British narcissism '' and .
what  Le Monde
what swept British appeasement under the carpet .
what did The film sweep under the carpet .
who was sent two copies of the film before Christmas 2010 .
what was Queen Elizabeth II sent before Christmas 2010 .
who was the daughter and successor of King George VI .
who was Queen Elizabeth II .
who called the reports `` the highest honor '' the film could receive .
what did Seidler call the reports .
what had received 12 Oscar nominations .
what had The film received .
what had been nominated for 14 BAFTAs .
who were more than any other film .
who won for Best Actor at the 68th Golden Globe Awards .
where did Firth win for Best Actor .
what won no other Golden Globes .
who did The film win .
what were more than any other film .
who is It also .
who won the Directors Guild of America Awards 2010 for Best Director .
who did Hooper win for Best Director .
who is a television film .
what is AlsoEdit Bertie & Elizabeth .
who was It .
who plays a stammering World War I veteran in the Country .
what does Colin Firth play .
